# Testing Firefox more efficiently with machine learning

- **Sample ID**: case_032
- **Source URL**: https://hacks.mozilla.org/2020/07/testing-firefox-more-efficiently-with-machine-learning/
- **Content type**: article

---

Author’s note: July 13th 9:02am PT – Corrected number of test files and related calculations.
A browser is an incredibly complex piece of software. With such enormous complexity, the only way to maintain a rapid pace of development is through an extensive CI system that can give developers confidence that their changes won’t introduce bugs. Given the scale of our CI, we’re always looking for ways to reduce load while maintaining a high standard of product quality. We wondered if we could use machine learning to reach a higher degree of efficiency.
Continuous integration at scale
At Mozilla we have around 85,000 unique test files. Each contain many test functions. These tests need to run on all our supported platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Android) against a variety of build configurations (PGO, debug, ASan, etc.), with a range of runtime parameters (site isolation, WebRender, multi-process, etc.).
While we don’t test against every possible combination of the above, there are still over 90 unique configurations that we do test against. In other words, for each change that developers push to the repository, we could potentially run all 85k tests 90 different times. On an average work day we see nearly 300 pushes (including our testing branch). If we simply ran every test on every configuration on every push, we’d run approximately 2.3 billion test files per day! While we do throw money at this problem to some extent, as an independent non-profit organization, our budget is finite.
So how do we keep our CI load manageable? First, we recognize that some of those ninety unique configurations are more important than others. Many of the less important ones only run a small subset of the tests, or only run on a handful of pushes per day, or both. Second, in the case of our testing branch, we rely on our developers to specify which configurations and tests are most relevant to their changes. Third, we use an integration branch.
Basically, when a patch is pushed to the integration branch, we only run a small subset of tests against it. We then periodically run everything and employ code sheriffs to figure out if we missed any regressions. If so, they back out the offending patch. The integration branch is periodically merged to the main branch once everything looks good.
A subset of the tasks we run on a single mozilla-central push. The full set of tasks was too hard to distinguish when scaled to fit in a single image.
A new approach to efficient testing
These methods have served us well for many years, but it turns out they’re still very expensive. Even with all of these optimizations our CI still runs around 10 compute years per day! Part of the problem is that we have been using a naive heuristic to choose which tasks to run on the integration branch. The heuristic ranks tasks based on how frequently they have failed in the past. The ranking is unrelated to the contents of the patch. So a push that modifies a README file would run the same tasks as a push that turns on site isolation. Additionally, the responsibility for determining which tests and configurations to run on the testing branch has shifted over to the developers themselves. This wastes their valuable time and tends towards over-selection of tests.
About a year ago, we started asking ourselves: how can we do better? We realized that the current implementation of our CI relies heavily on human intervention. What if we could instead correlate patches to tests using historical regression data? Could we use a machine learning algorithm to figure out the optimal set of tests to run? We hypothesized that we could simultaneously save money by running fewer tests, get results faster, and reduce the cognitive burden on developers. In the process, we would build out the infrastructure necessary to keep our CI pipeline running efficiently.
Having fun with historical failures
The main prerequisite to a machine-learning-based solution is collecting a large and precise enough regression dataset. On the surface this appears easy. We already store the status of all test executions in a data warehouse called ActiveData. But in reality, it’s very hard to do for the reasons below.
Since we only run a subset of tests on any given push (and then periodically run all of them), it’s not always obvious when a regression was introduced. Consider the following scenario:
| Test A | Test B | |
| Patch 1 | PASS | PASS |
| Patch 2 | FAIL | NOT RUN |
| Patch 3 | FAIL | FAIL |
It is easy to see that the “Test A” failure was regressed by Patch 2, as that’s where it first started failing. However with the “Test B” failure, we can’t really be sure. Was it caused by Patch 2 or 3? Now imagine there are 8 patches in between the last PASS and the first FAIL. That adds a lot of uncertainty!
Intermittent (aka flaky) failures also make it hard to collect regression data. Sometimes tests can both pass and fail on the same codebase for all sorts of different reasons. It turns out we can’t be sure that Patch 2 regressed “Test A” in the table above after all! That is unless we re-run the failure enough times to be statistically confident. Even worse, the patch itself could have introduced the intermittent failure in the first place. We can’t assume that just because a failure is intermittent that it’s not a regression.
The writers of this post having a hard time.
Our heuristics
In order to solve these problems, we have built quite a large and complicated set of heuristics to predict which regressions are caused by which patch. For example, if a patch is later backed out, we check the status of the tests on the backout push. If they’re still failing, we can be pretty sure the failures were not due to the patch. Conversely, if they start passing we can be pretty sure that the patch was at fault.
Some failures are classified by humans. This can work to our advantage. Part of the code sheriff’s job is annotating failures (e.g. “intermittent” or “fixed by commit” for failures fixed at some later point). These classifications are a huge help finding regressions in the face of missing or intermittent tests. Unfortunately, due to the sheer number of patches and failures happening continuously, 100% accuracy is not attainable. So we even have heuristics to evaluate the accuracy of the classifications!
Sheriffs complaining about intermittent failures.
Another trick for handling missing data is to backfill missing tests. We select tests to run on older pushes where they didn’t initially run, for the purpose of finding which push caused a regression. Currently, sheriffs do this manually. However, there are plans to automate it in certain circumstances in the future.
Collecting data about patches
We also need to collect data about the patches themselves, including files modified and the diff. This allows us to correlate with the test failure data. In this way, the machine learning model can determine the set of tests most likely to fail for a given patch.
Collecting data about patches is way easier, as it is totally deterministic. We iterate through all the commits in our Mercurial repository, parsing patches with our rust-parsepatch project and analyzing source code with our rust-code-analysis project.
Designing the training set
Now that we have a dataset of patches and associated tests (both passes and failures), we can build a training set and a validation set to teach our machines how to select tests for us.
90% of the dataset is used as a training set, 10% is used as a validation set. The split must be done carefully. All patches in the validation set must be posterior to those in the training set. If we were to split randomly, we’d leak information from the future into the training set, causing the resulting model to be biased and artificially making its results look better than they actually are.
For example, consider a test which had never failed until last week and has failed a few times since then. If we train the model with a randomly picked training set, we might find ourselves in the situation where a few failures are in the training set and a few in the validation set. The model might be able to correctly predict the failures in the validation set, since it saw some examples in the training set.
In a real-world scenario though, we can’t look into the future. The model can’t know what will happen in the next week, but only what has happened so far. To evaluate properly, we need to pretend we are in the past, and future data (relative to the training set) must be inaccessible.
Visualization of our split between training and validation set.
Building the model
We train an XGBoost model, using features from both test, patch, and the links between them, e.g:
- In the past, how often did this test fail when the same files were touched?
- How far in the directory tree are the source files from the test files?
- How often in the VCS history were the source files modified together with the test files?
Full view of the model training infrastructure.
The input to the model is a tuple (TEST, PATCH), and the label is a binary FAIL or NOT FAIL. This means we have a single model that is able to take care of all tests. This architecture allows us to exploit the commonalities between test selection decisions in an easy way. A normal multi-label model, where each test is a completely separate label, would not be able to extrapolate the information about a given test and apply it to another completely unrelated test.
Given that we have tens of thousands of tests, even if our model was 99.9% accurate (which is pretty accurate, just one error every 1000 evaluations), we’d still be making mistakes for pretty much every patch! Luckily the cost associated with false positives (tests which are selected by the model for a given patch but do not fail) is not as high in our domain, as it would be if say, we were trying to recognize faces for policing purposes. The only price we pay is running some useless tests. At the same time we avoided running hundreds of them, so the net result is a huge savings!
As developers periodically switch what they are working on the dataset we train on evolves. So we currently retrain the model every two weeks.
Optimizing configurations
After we have chosen which tests to run, we can further improve the selection by choosing where the tests should run. In other words, the set of configurations they should run on. We use the dataset we’ve collected to identify redundant configurations for any given test. For instance, is it really worth running a test on both Windows 7 and Windows 10? To identify these redundancies, we use a solution similar to frequent itemset mining:
- Collect failure statistics for groups of tests and configurations
- Calculate the “support” as the number of pushes in which both X and Y failed over the number of pushes in which they both run
- Calculate the “confidence” as the number of pushes in which both X and Y failed over the number of pushes in which they both run and only one of the two failed.
We only select configuration groups where the support is high (low support would mean we don’t have enough proof) and the confidence is high (low confidence would mean we had many cases where the redundancy did not apply).
Once we have the set of tests to run, information on whether their results are configuration-dependent or not, and a set of machines (with their associated cost) on which to run them; we can formulate a mathematical optimization problem which we solve with a mixed-integer programming solver. This way, we can easily change the optimization objective we want to achieve without invasive changes to the optimization algorithm. At the moment, the optimization objective is to select the cheapest configurations on which to run the tests.
Using the model
A machine learning model is only as useful as a consumer’s ability to use it. To that end, we decided to host a service on Heroku using dedicated worker dynos to service requests and Redis Queues to bridge between the backend and frontend. The frontend exposes a simple REST API, so consumers need only specify the push they are interested in (identified by the branch and topmost revision). The backend will automatically determine the files changed and their contents using a clone of mozilla-central.
Depending on the size of the push and the number of pushes in the queue to be analyzed, the service can take several minutes to compute the results. We therefore ensure that we never queue up more than a single job for any given push. We cache results once computed. This allows consumers to kick off a query asynchronously, and periodically poll to see if the results are ready.
We currently use the service when scheduling tasks on our integration branch. It’s also used when developers run the special mach try auto command to test their changes on the testing branch. In the future, we may also use it to determine which tests a developer should run locally.
Sequence diagram depicting the communication between the various actors in our infrastructure.
Measuring and comparing results
From the outset of this project, we felt it was crucial that we be able to run and compare experiments, measure our success and be confident that the changes to our algorithms were actually an improvement on the status quo. There are effectively two variables that we care about in a scheduling algorithm:
- The amount of resources used (measured in hours or dollars).
- The regression detection rate. That is, the percentage of introduced regressions that were caught directly on the push that caused them. In other words, we didn’t have to rely on a human to backfill the failure to figure out which push was the culprit.
We defined our metric:
scheduler effectiveness = 1000 * regression detection rate / hours per push
The higher this metric, the more effective a scheduling algorithm is. Now that we had our metric, we invented the concept of a “shadow scheduler”. Shadow schedulers are tasks that run on every push, which shadow the actual scheduling algorithm. Only rather than actually scheduling things, they output what they would have scheduled had they been the default. Each shadow scheduler may interpret the data returned by our machine learning service a bit differently. Or they may run additional optimizations on top of what the machine learning model recommends.
Finally we wrote an ETL to query the results of all these shadow schedulers, compute the scheduler effectiveness
metric of each, and plot them all in a dashboard. At the moment, there are about a dozen different shadow schedulers that we’re monitoring and fine-tuning to find the best possible outcome. Once we’ve identified a winner, we make it the default algorithm. And then we start the process over again, creating further experiments.
Conclusion
The early results of this project have been very promising. Compared to our previous solution, we’ve reduced the number of test tasks on our integration branch by 70%! Compared to a CI system with no test selection, by almost 99%! We’ve also seen pretty fast adoption of our mach try auto tool, suggesting a usability improvement (since developers no longer need to think about what to select). But there is still a long way to go!
We need to improve the model’s ability to select configurations and default to that. Our regression detection heuristics and the quality of our dataset needs to improve. We have yet to implement usability and stability fixes to mach try auto
.
And while we can’t make any promises, we’d love to package the model and service up in a way that is useful to organizations outside of Mozilla. Currently, this effort is part of a larger project that contains other machine learning infrastructure originally created to help manage Mozilla’s Bugzilla instance. Stay tuned!
If you’d like to learn more about this project or Firefox’s CI system in general, feel free to ask on our Matrix channel, #firefox-ci:mozilla.org.
About Andrew Halberstadt
Andrew works on CI, test infrastructure, linting and general developer productivity tooling.
About Marco Castelluccio
Marco is a passionate Mozilla hackeneer (a strange hybrid between hacker and engineer), who contributed and keeps contributing to Firefox, PluotSorbet, Open Web Apps. More recently he has been working on using machine learning and data mining techniques for software engineering (testing, crash handling, bug management, and so on).
---

## Extracted images (6)

[IMAGE_REF: ml-design-doc-reviewer/data/raw_documents/images/case_032/img_003.png]
[IMAGE_ALT: Example of a mozilla-central push on Treeherder]
[IMAGE_SOURCE_URL: https://hacks.mozilla.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/Screenshot_2020-07-03-100-0-mozilla-central-Backed-out-changeset-3d3f8e290aa6-bug-1649802-for-bc-failures-on-.png]
[IMAGE_DESCRIPTION: trot scene rrr ot una temps oot seistoat Ute ere ati a epee nuit eee onan oe nist enppae oot nuit coast Leis oom cen neat ot Una atset on Un eats eneg oe ‘Stipaecr Ceeteabetiomancront on Line tt eps esxiottent fesxastceng ‘os cree compte ot (os cree comptes eat ‘os xcrss comptes cen ‘os cross compte npr oe ‘os cies comptes Ncoet oa (08x cross camps Coavet Coscia henner ang osxionsappaneert ‘nse 3 nse eng one 7 sappane ort nse 7 ic ot nse wc enog nse Tone st -Rap(iai-em ia-p laibg-om iabg-p sp sp-cm sp-p ug ytp ytp-avi-str ytp-n2eé ytp-n26t-str) Btime(strecipes alrecipss-c alrecipss-c-vismet slrecipet-viemst amazon amazon-¢ amazon-<-vismst amazon-s amazon-s-¢ amazon-s-c-viemet amazon-s-viemet amazon-vismet bbe bbe bbe-< bbe-<-viemet bbe-vismet bing bing-< bing-c-vismst bing-t bing-t-¢ bing-¢--¢ bing-«--c-vismet bing-«--viemet bing-vismst booking booking-¢ booking-c-vismet booking-vismet cnn cnn-smp can-anp-cconampe-vanet en-amp-vanst cons enn-c-vismstcon-vnet ebay be} sbay+c-vanel obeys obayi-ee sbapt-se-nanelsba4-<-vinelebeys-vint espn eepi-e espre-vemetespr-vine! facebook fceboot-s fasbook <-vine!faceboot-vanet fbn Then Toansevene! there vena fb-te-vemet gape gmapee gaps: gaps: gnapé-=-vsnel gnape-vsmst googe googe- pooge--vinet googe-viemstguearh~ gesuch--e gsureh-e-vsnst geueh-<-venst mao inabc mab--vsnst mab-venet istgram istagran- instapran-<-vet nstgran-visnet Janshu Janshi-< Janshu-e-vemst Jenshu-enst msos-sup meror-sup-c meroe-<up-<-venet meroe-sup-wsnst raat eda eoat--vsmst eaat-venet acto saci eaao-<-visnet acto-vanetwe0-deWeb-- wed-de-c-viemstwob--vismstwapeal wiupega-e wopegs--venet waiped-vemet youtube youtube : youtuoe--venet youtue-vsmst youtube outube-r youtube youtubeae-vemst outubea-vanet) Rap-fenie(sp-p )Rap-fenioew3(10-pibg-p) Rap-tprocearp-ast)Btime-fencx( sp) Bime-feni-wrew=( sp) Rewn(c RI R2) ‘Mot me as) aah ts ts. at sate) Rap(iatem ap labg.em lag 6p sp-om spp p-av-tpp-aSt yp-s26-yp-ps tr) time areapeearepe- arcpes-¢vismstareapervemet amazon amazon anazor-<-vsnet amazon anazon-c anazon+cvsmetamazon-¢vemst anazor-vsnet bbe bbe bb-cvemstboe-visnt bing bing-sbing-cvsmst ting binge bing.e-<-venet bing +-vmst ing-nat ‘pooung Botng-: booung--vienetbeotng amet con cun-amp enr-amp-< en-amp-evvsnet enn-amp-venet cus ent--visne con-vanetebefx ebaji-< sba-te-vsnetsba}-s ebay abap-ee-venelsba-te-vnetsbaj-venet espn ssp spr--visnstsep-vsnetfacaook TassooK- facebook evens aceboo- viens T-ns Tens entevenetf-ne-vsnet GRAPE REPL REPE-C-Enet gmape-vnet goog Googles gooNee-Menstgooge-vmet (sreh geurch-e gsereh-e-visnstgsueh<-venst mab indbc mab--visnat mab-venst mstgtam nslgran- intagran-e-venet mstgram-visnet Janshu Janse Janstu--vemst Janchu-venst meroE-sup meroe-sup-s meroe-sup-<-venet meros-<up-visnst raat eoat-< eerte-venetreeat-vanet saci eaao-s eato-<-vienet tacto-anet web-2 web Wob-Oe-c-vismetNeb-de-venet wiped waipegs-< wcpea-e-venst walped-vismst outube youtube. youtus--vemst yutubesvenst youtube outubew- youtube youtue-re-viemstyoutubew-venat Nesp mds mas? mass) Rap-fenac( sp-p) Rap-fenoc 318-9 bgp) Rap-Tprosex 3 o-Nat past) Stime-fanix(sp) Sime fanocwnee asp) 18m Bs Rox 5m TL2( gos) ‘Ban 5m SM(am) ‘Be Lion pt ges p( achat ana ast abs bg bn bo Br Dr bs x e-vaunca at CD Gc de GED n-CA a. oo oFAR 6-CL OES oe ou TTT TAAL GEE gag gN QUAN Ne RN hr ReD hu p-iM ype Jaa AaD Am Ano oi gv mh MAM mE my NO Nem -NO Oc REAM pl L-ApL-PT rm ou Sonik on oq 6 v-SE i to th Ht eux ur uz wo xh 29-CH zh-TWV)ms(W achat ana at ar bs bg bn Bo Br Bex De evan cok ex ej 68 GED 6 on-O5on-GE 60 EAR OE-CL BEES ae-UX tou Tat L GEE Qo g! ON GUN Ne IAN hr heb hu M-AMnp ade Je ta tab Kx km tn Wo 0 Mg Iv meh mk me my DN ne-P nl n0-NO oe pul pl pLER ptPT cm ror een tek xi gon eq st evSE tet th tes Uk Ur u2 vi moO aM-CH a7-TW) pa aeh af ana ast a bs Og bn bo Dr Br De ea oven ak XD ceeds Ge GED =0-Ch n-GB 90 SEAR He-CL 65S ook ot ute MTT HHL GEE Qa gan QUAN he MAN Rr Reb NU RAM hyp ait Je Aa AaD Am An HO oi gv MEN mM MME mY ND-NO Ne-NP NNO oe pas pl PLOR pLPT m fo ru Sen tS gon 64 sr eV-SE tt th Eres uk ur u2 viwo an 2h Z-TW) BM ac a an ar ata bo bg bn bo br DEX DS cx c-vaoncs CO AD CX of dE Go USD a -Ch OF-GH so SEAR OE-CL OFS GEM st outa TT TL GEE ga gl QM QUAN Ne NH ‘sb hu MM yo JAD KAA HO Bo tg WV maN ME ME ME MY NO-NO NEA ni NN-NO Ce PEA pL PL-BR PLAT rm rou sen IK Son 6g 6 6-$E te tnt We UK Ur UR Viwo aN 2F-CN 2h-TWY)Bpgo( Sym ns rap run) L1On(SI 62 BS BA BS EE BT BS Hs Blo Br G12 SIS G1 BIS BIE BIT BIE BIS B20 I BEI 2 BES Bot BES Esk BT Ost Bs9 Ge Belt BI? Bes BK Bes BEI BI” GEIS GIs Bo Bert) Bes (B aon af ana ast az os ‘bg bn bo br On De cx ce-vabnes ca AD cS] GE Go US sl -Ch OF-GB so SEAR OE-CL SEES GEE stuf TMT Ty QE ga HQ QUAN Ne I hr NED Ru AM Mp Me Jana aD A km kn HI 1g Bah MK ME ME MH NB-NO NEP nl NO-NO oe HEN pI PLB LPT rm or sen 6 son 6g v-SE ta oth fe UE Ur UZ VIWo XN Z-CN ANT) OUp(G seh at ana ast a be Dg bn bo Br bx De cx xan aK ERD EE cj GAD oF-CA oF-05 90 o6-AR GECL OFS MK tou TET TL GEE QU gl gm QUAM ne NM Rr NED Mu MAM mp de Jeng aD Mk Kn Ho} 0 ig WV MeN MK ME ME mY NB-NO ne-NP MNO oe Hu PLER BLP rm ror sn 56 con 6g SVE ta th ts UE Ur U2 Vi Wo 3h 2-CN 2N-TW! )LION-Rpk( achat an a as a2 Bs Bg Dn Do Br Bx Ds ex cE aE Cc HO GED GN-CA SCE 60 BEAR B6-CL OFS OK ot ou Te MT HL GEE (98g gn QUAN he MN Re Neb hu MAM My GH JAS HAD MEK AHH 1g V MeN MK a ME MY NNO e-NP I nN-NO oe pet pl PLBR pLPT rm ror Gen 6x 6 Son6q reve tata tte UE UF U2 Vi Won z-CN z-TW) ‘Wee (wot wot wt wot wots wt wot” wots wp wet) [BBR Bb Boe Gost Be Rox Sm Vnera(AB Bp) SMlaeantnojt p pg ten) TL ga) 10r-bump( bi ib) condprofe = tetox) Statc-Analysite 3 covery fuente) 1B BR Bo Bbc BH se ss 5m Symtew'( Gp) SMH aed ege monies nu pr) Sber=(gan rust warp) Searchtoneaa (ix) M(1234567 93 10 111219 118 17 18 8 98) KO AM Gt EM) [Som BoRs Rpx UpsEOR s(N) BMR( oR) cLUp(OR ) Blles( GOR) ‘(ea camp gt 93 9 95 © ps reawobet «caw tabeich ip wel) Rap(amazon anazor-mgur gus ma tum tumbw.c tin ch tt toc wa) Raper (apple appl ast bing bing dom soa say. Tendom fandom. Tb Tb To--e ge guoe-s anal gmatc goaot godots gout godot’ goog gooue estessgstete-c gues gees mab mab-¢ Instagram nslagran-stnsamn unis mirosott merosort© mm nsx natn ofee ‘tte outook outook-e papal papa pnts pntarect¢ raat raat cb spss wacpea waipeae wm wa-b ws wm jahoo-"al Jhoo-nalé JahOO-Newsyoo-Towes ynGst Jann youtube youtube ip P-AUSE Ypres YoucRINNTIELeT# owaRIre™ joweRirespeer® ) Tisha 3(e cao gl GE Gt gS op pe faheext «cm labo fp wbgl) Rap-se (amazon anazon-< apps app ast bing binge dom eos sbae fandom tandome to foe fos fos gooe gdoe- gmat gute godotgodot- godot< gost goog goog gees aseste geese geids-c ma imdb-c mgur mgur instgram inlaram- Js? Inkeainuntean-e merosott mrost-¢ mea mun nex nate offs oft outlook outooK- paypal pale inset pict eon recs so sp ss tumbr tumbr-s tte tics tr tare up wa waupea wares wm Wn-b wn-e Wahoos ato-ra-ct yatoo-nevsynoo-nen- yndoxyndor-c youtube youtube ip Yip-st yipasttrypwpeatroucamesast<r* youcaieers* youceiepe-<t ) [Be Lion pt Uge8T( bev ea damp gi gS gt gS © p ps reawebet« smu tabeich tp webg)p(H ac a an ar at ar bo Dg bn BO br Orbe ca c-vabnis Gab Gk jak Gb Gc ol w-CK On-GB co SEAR GE-CL oF-ES Geax tata TH TNL QE gal GH QUAN no Ar Reb hi y-d p eiJaHa ab m K i ig W h mmempM-NO RE ANNO Ge pa p'BR LPT ro Gn lo on Gg GE a tn te UE ur we Wi wo xn 21-CN 2n-TUH) ms(W gohan a ast az be Bg|bno Dr Dx seawall aK ERD Cc] GO GD oF-CA SNE 00 SAR 6-CL GES a-MX ot a TTT HL GEE QU Ql gn QUAM Ne MN Re neD hu MAM ye a WH Je A AAD RE AA HOH] V aN MA My N-NO He-NP ni N-NO oe PEA pl LER pt-PT rm ru Sen ks Son 9 ev its th Ht teu UF uz Wo 3m 20-CM 2n-TW) pW 2 tana at az beg Bn BO Dr Bn i ca even eat ex cf db GED oF-CA GB 60 EAR ECL OFS OF-UK ot ou TTT AF-ML QE Qa GH QUA a NAM NERD nu NAM Ny Gt JAZ Ha MEK Kn HoH 0 HV moh MA MM mY NO-NO ne-NP A NE-NO OF pe pl LER pL-PT em ror Son 66 ton 69 6¥-S tat th rte UE UF UZ WO 3m ZA-CN ZR-TW)Rap( amazon anaron-< mgur imgur-¢ mana tunbw tumbu-< wth tcc twtr twttrc wa )BM(@ ach a an ar ast az be bg bn bo Br box Ds ex ceva Cat CD & ] GED SNA LGB 60 GEAR BEL OFS 6A ot ou Ta TT H-ML QE Qa Gl gh QUAN Ne NAN Nr NED Nu nye 2 6 Je Aa naD KH ENO 0 ig MEN mA MF ME mY NO-NO NEP NE-NO oe aL pl PL-ER pLPT em ro Fu Son tt son oq sr ev-AE tat th tres UK ur uz vino aR 2h 2P-TW) Bpgo(® Sym ner un ) Raper =( apps app aS bing Ding-e dom soa] sare tandom fandom fo f- b+ tb gdbegaoe- gal gnats godot gosot->godot-«godot goog google sess acest gages gee nad mab-< mstgram insapram-< ntsanuntean-s microsoft merocot-<¢ mm-h nett ntfs ofes ofeesoutook outook- papal papatepntestpntes-< rear rac. 6D spss wiped wiped‘ wm wn-b Wn-s Wm Jhoo-nal hoo-nal-< Jehoo-ews Ehoo-nw-<yandxyanar- youtube youtube Ep p-NSt Apaseetr p-yps-tr fewenimencseet™ youcsimere™ fewenimespcer™) LiDn(Bt 62 BS Bt BS Be G7 68 85 BY BI B12 B19 BU BIS Bie BIT BAe BYy Ges Bat Get a2 Bes Get Bes Get Ge? Get Ges Bete Get! Geld Geld stl Bets Bete Get? Get Betd Beze Bett) Ellce(® aon at an ar ast az bs Og On Do br bx De ce ce-voc cat ex eo Of GED eM-Ok n-GE oO EAR oe-CL oF ES aeK ef ou fe Ht HNL GEE QO gO GU:N he NaN hr Neb ‘pA ye Jan aD Am An no tg man MM MEM NB-NO e-NP nL mO-NO oe pa pl LER pT rm or sen kon 6 v-SE i fo th fe ux Ur UZ VI Wo XN 2N-CH 2nTUI) OLUp(® ach af an a as ar be Bg bn Do Dr bx DS ea exvaleN EB CID CE GU GED oF-CA T-CB 60 AR OE-CL GES OF-4K ot UTE HTML QEAE Qa QN QUAM he MEN RE NED hu MAM MS dH oA HAD AER A oH Hg NV mon mm m6 my no-NO ne-NP nt nn-NO oe pull p-OR pT rm ror Sens con 6g rev tata th ts UE UF u2 Vi Wo an 2-CN zm-TW) Rap-Crsr=( amazon amazon api apps bing binge dom ste sb fandom fndom-< fo f-< Tbs fos gdoe gcc gmat gmat-egodot googs goopl-c gests gshete-< ges gside-+ mab mdb-c mgur impure Ilagram Ineagran-chmugdn nase mirosoTtmirosot-¢ ma mann nat ste offs oes e ‘toot outoot- pupal pupae pisst pits. eoat rear so sp ss tumor tumor. twien tic twtr nec wa wap wacpeal-¢ wn Jhoo-mal yoo-nal-< ahoo-tws ehoo-nwe< janx yanar- youtube youtubes) TProfe (bev cH 4 gt g gt QS mm of p ps rennet «enw tadewin tp )Rap-ChRw (amazon amazon. apple app bing bng-c ebay 23} tndom Tandon: Tbe fos Toe doe qdoe© anal gmatc gosot Googe ‘ogi geosts gente geass gsiot-¢ mab imab-e mgur gu slgram istagram-c nisin intean-e mirocott mroco-¢ maa mn nafs nat offe of outoDkouOK-= pupal aya pinisst pints eon recs sb sp os tumbw tumow-c tien tic tte toc wa wapeai valpeda-s ynoo-nal jahoo-ma-choo-news hoo-newe-< endex Ende youtube youtube yp ip-av-st past ipsa yp-vps- ppv AS skp-larvine-tsp-arvie-ys-t)L1On-Rpk( ac a an ar ata be bg bn bo br rx Deca cl-vansa ca AD cto] Gt Ge Gs el a-CA on-GB 00 ee-AR eE-CL OF-ES GEE et eu f TMT TL HAE QOH Gr QUAN he IN hr nso Mu y-M np ej ta ab Am xn to Bo Hg man MK MME my ND-NO Ne ni MnO Oe ASN p LER pLPT rm o ru gn le on 4g er v-3E fa tet tt fre uk ur UE vio xh 2M-CN ah-TUN) Rap-Profters(dom godot {odf-> godote gogo: mma man «bp s& ul wa wm w-b wm yp )j-bench-vSne-( Speed aes olan webool) e-banch-smw a epee atest olan sunsplcrwebtoo!) pen(e) ea(s sm) ea(s sm) ‘cat tn ppunil(i 234 bel bed be bed bebe ber ata as a at ie ite ae gle qik2 get gd gp gpu-e mast maxd mat remote) R(C 1 28 Ri 2 RE A RS Ru RUS ud) X23 AE) We We Wad Wed Wri Wa Wir wot wl wot wot wp wo wot” wp wis wp) Mien na 8 aS) Winer (io) te) Weir wnt) pve (meh )Nbspi(mal mad mass )isen( 12843 bet bed bed bed od bot be? att ot aot at* ats gle ge ae 2st QZs2 GS ged Mt na NS nA nS mat m2 moss) Fn(en-US )Fxfn-nwraen-8) M-iroo( sty et e2) ‘Gest un eppunt Wwe wt wus wes vir ra ws wie ptt wot wpts WPA wots wos wp WptSwptSwptG wp wptzwpts wt wpts wptie) R(C J1 2 J RI RZ RS RA REE AY AE Ut Ru? RUS Ru RUS RUG LT RS) M(1 25 456 789 1 1112191415 1 et ed es BoM es ek eT bes ed eto Det nr ets Bete Be HIE at a as at ats as ar teas att att atz gic ie Ze get gs? QUsS gst pu gpu-e mast mas? mass ronan) XC 381111) Wie (6) Wr ot Er mh) el Bo eB se) Mem) Mor 345 675310718 a pe Gt mi mn me gn) Fase) ae et) Fanon) apo ‘cat mn punt (CJ i a a RE Rt La Rd Rd RS Ru LT Mud) M12 24S 788 bet ed eS et bes bot ber et ed beta bet be etd etd be Dele i a ad lai ita tie ie ga ie gat aE ge Gd pet Gd apu gp-< mast mat2 max remote webgpu) Wi wat wa wl wot wp wt wot” wp wp wpti wit wnt wis wotd wis wpe wot wot wots wad wpta wz) X(xt a dX) Wiese(we Wr wee Wes Wp wort wir Vrs We ws Wr) 1c) Wer =( Wr welt wpa wpts) py2zers(men )M-spi( maa! maa* mass) Fin on-Us) Fxfn-new (en-US )Me-proc( att ete et) FRew(C RI RZRS RLS RE RI RS) (est eppunt R(C 311248 RI RZRE RA RS RE AT RS) M(17 5.45 ie te gze ast gz gZss QS gpu gpu-e mast masz remote webgpu) WWF! WU? Ws Wed) X(XI 121534 X5) Wher We Wat Wa WAS ot wptt Wpt2wpts WPA pts wpts WPL WS pts wpe) SY (ab jsp ) W-bewr (wr wp) M-spi(mast masz) M-tproo( att et €2 cs) SY-fspara (erp) ‘cet eppunit Wir vir We Wie irs Ware) R(t st 28 J Ri wa ma RS) M128 43 ee ac qt ed gS get gpu gpu-e man maa emote) X(xi 2 Xi HS) Wese(We Wat Wea Wie ip wp wp pts wot wot wpe wot” wot wp wot ) W-bow (wir wt) M-spi(mast mata) Misr 12 45 gc ie ie ist ged get gle mani masz) Wfisrra( We Wat Wad Wa ip vir ra re Wires Vréwpt wpa wid wple ts wot wot pts wot wpto) M-tproc( att et 2 et) (cst eppunt M12 345 675 8101 1218 14151 ie gis ae get gD gust gpu gpuc mast mas? mast remota webgpu) X(X1 2 1314 XS xe) R(C 112 4 4 RI RR RAS ERT AS) Wir ra Ws We wes) Were Wt Wa Wes vie wet wpl2 wots wp wpts wpe wot Ws pS wpto wp wptz wpttswptéwptis wie) Webrar(ir® wot wpt ust wet wpts wp ws )R-(C RI 2 AS RU AS RE RT RE)ALS(123 45 7 89 10111218 161516 ge ie ge gst gez gas gust mart mae? mass webgpu) MEspi(mast masz mass) Wefisper=(We WHat Wz Was Vir Vira Ws Yue wis Vrs wpt Wp WES wptl wots wp WT wpts wp wpe wptt wpt2wptswptt wptswptic) M-tproo(atty ct ez) ‘Gest un eppunt Wwe Wat waz wuss Wait Waka Wr wre Wir wt wz wpts WPA ws wis wptT ps pts wptO)M(123 4S bet ez eS betes es be? att at * at aise te gc gst? gst 8 gpu gp‘ mas! masz remote se webgpu )R(C J1 2 JS RI R2 RS RL AS Ut Ru? Ru RU) X(HI 92% X84" x5) er =( Mn) SY( 20664) Mer m2 WS ns) Wri) (e) Weber ir wp) MLspi(maet masz) Fxton-s ) Me sproc(atty et 2) Fxtnsern(en-8) tera at ata aot ste hn TC eppunit) Mews a(1 234 57 89 1 bet Bae bes Bott eS bot Der tata GSH at alsa rat ad ati tt aia ais ati ais ee ge hi ie ist ge ed et gpu gpu< man matt mast remote webgpu) Xow (xi# Xa HE 4 XS HE) Wha We Wl ved Wes vat Wirt Wir ir rd Ws in Wir We wot wp wp wld wots a wot” wp pts wptio wit wnt wis wnt wots wate pti wis wpttswpze) ewr=(C 11245 45 ROH RS RUSH RE RT RE Rut A PASH RU RUS RUS RUT AUS) ther =(e) M-spicws (mast masz mass) Fetndoern (anus ) Fane (on-Us) M-tproceera{ st ete? c3) ‘condprofre(tetox) ‘cast tt ats wn eppunit (Jt 8 mt 2 Re) WC we wa Wa Was Wt ‘ira rs dis vine wt wpa wots wpe wps te wot wp ws wpto wp wpta pts wpe wptis wie wpti7 wie) M(t 2.4 = et bea bets bes ek er bes bes eciow Ret Ret bts Bet Bes Hevea at ats at asa ar aw ie ie ge ub gs2 gas QU pu gpu'e mast mao remote webgpu )XCX1X2) (6) Wher WP) Weber ict ir War wr wpt ze wos) Mspi(mant maaa) Fxin(on-us) M-proc(aty et e2) Fann a(on-U8 ) 1 Bs Rok 3m 1 bt sym Smt Searches (ax) ‘Biv en-pot Lion pk Ups p(w ac at an at ata bo bg bn Bo br bn BEcac-vabncia Ca bk jako Gc al w-Ch On-GB co GEAR GE-CL ots Ge-Ux tata TW T/L gall Qn QUAN no AN Heb ni y-M p e iJ-P-na kabham n i gV h mmeyB-NO nN nO Ge pep LB pLPT rm ou en 6 Gon 6 v-SE teeth WH te Ur uz Ww xh HCN aN-TWN) ms(W aoa ah a as a Bg ‘bn bor br Dees cavalo eke ej 88 dED en-O5on-CE 60 e-AR OE-CL GEES BK tou Taf M4 L GEE Qa GON GUAN he NAN Rr NED UMA nye ede JeuPomae ta tb Kx km tn WO 10 Hy IV mah mt me my MNO ne-P nl nn-NO oe pul pl pLER pLPT em ror een tek sgon eq et ev-SE tet ht! trite uk ur U2 no Rh a0-CN 20-TW) pao af ana ta bs Og Bn bo Or Or be ex coats cat XD exe 8 Ge ced OF-CA 0-68 60 9A GFL 6S o-4K ot UTE TTL GEE ge gL gN QUAM he MN RE NED fu MAM Me 6 JeNP-maE na AAD Mk AnH 101g IV MEN mK SH N-NO ne-NP nl nn-NO oe uN pl LER BLT rm ror Son S66 Son6q sr ev-SE tat hts UE UF u2 Vi Woah 2-CN zm-TW) EMR ah a ana ae ar Be bg bn bo Dr Ox BE ea c-vasnC ck AD esc] G9 GHD aon SNE SO GEAR o-CL Se-ES o6dK ot outa ETE {yg Qa fg QUAN ne NAN ns Mu y-M myp 6 Jean nt aD MA An HOB fo Ag W MAN MM ME My NO-NO NEP ni mn-NO Ce PEA pt pL-BR pL-PT rm rou sen 1S sn 6q Sr 6v-$E ta fe th tt te UX UF UZ Wo aR 2F-CN 2h-TW)Bpgo( Sym str) L1ON(B1 B2 BS Bt BS BE B7 BF BS B10 BI B12 BIS BH BIS BIE BIT BIE BIS 0.621 BNI BNT-pol BND BNr-pot ANS ENG-poH BN BNL-poN BS ENS POH BNE BNE-pol BUT BNT-pot ‘BS BNE-pot BHS BNS-por BNO BNIe-pou BHT BNT-pou ENI2 BNZ-pou BN BNI poH BIN BNE-poH ENS BNIS-pol BNE BNIE-pON BNI” ENIT-poN GNIS BNIE-pou BUYS ENTS-pot BN ENDK-pot GHZ BNT-poH BEI BE? BS Bet GSS BEE BT BES Bes Bell BEI BEI2 GEIS HSU BSIS BIE BEIT GEIS BETS BezOBez1) L(G ach a an ar ata bo Dg Dn DO br DUDE cx ce-vabne CKD CSc] GE GP OED a SN-CK oF-GB so GEAR GE-CL SF-ES oF4K stout T "fr. gE ga gl gn QUAN ne AN Rene uA ye JP-mge Aa RAD HEA AN HOH 01 Hg V aN mA MS my N-NO ne-NP ni n-NO oe PEA pL PLER pl-PT mo ru Sen GK Son 9 seve its Ht te UX Ur uz VL Wo 3m 20-CN zh-TW) BMeS(B achat ana ast az bs bg bn o Br Dx Ds cava aK CED Ec GO GED oF-CA 9-00 SAR 6-CL GES O-MX ot TE TTT HL gEAE QU gl gn QUAN Ne MAN Re Neb hu pA ty a6 JesP-mac ag ha a km kno 10 ig moh mm mY NO-NO H=-NP A NE-NO Oe eA Bl LER pL-PT rm for Gon 6 Son 69 6¥-E at th rte UE Ur UZ VI WO 3m 2-CM 2R-TW )LIOh-ipk( seh af ana ast ar be bg bn o Br Bx sa eavanN ak Cc GU GED oF-CA SN 90 EAR GCL GES O-MX ot ua TTT TUL QEAE QU Ql gn QUAM Re MN Re Neb hu MAM ye eid Wt JevPomge Ma Rab MX Am An AO Hot gM mon mm mE my NO-NO n=-NP I NO oe pet pl LER BLT rm oT Genk son 6g st 6v-Se tate te UE UF U2 Vi Won Z-CN z-TW) men(8) R(c RI ADRS RERS RE) (Gest at tn eppunt (125 45 bet bc bed bot Bes bee ne? at aa ats at ase te gi gst 2 gst 6 gpu gps mast mas? remote Se webgpu JRC J1s2 RI 2 RS) WWE Wt Wed was wait Wana wrt wre ‘wirs wed wpt wpa ws wold wp wp ws wis wpto)T(Bev ea carp gi gt gS 0 pps eaabot« sw tp wel) X(X1 32) SY(a0 6 eps) Whera{ wip) t(e) Rap(amszonamazon-cimgur impure mn tumbw tune ‘uron ttn tte ttt wa) Bpgo run) Rapa pps apple ars bing ng-c soe bay fandom Tendom-< Tb fb-s Tb Tc gaoe goes gmat gna-c godot goog goog gests gsests< Ides Qsioe-¢ mad mab Inelagram ineagran-c ican® amean- mirocot mizosor< mm net nett OMe offs. outook outoot© papal paypal niet pinaetc raat eda cb sp se waiped Wapedsyoo-nal ynoO-nal-< Janoo-6¥6 yanoo-newes yndst yan youtus youtube. ip ypav-sr p-ase yp-asttrYp-vpestr pene mst yp-naevne-t ypanaevne-ps-<tr) Webra 3(Wr wpt) Mespi(mast mas? )Fxtn(sn-s) Rap-Csa{ amazon amazon appl appl ting Ding. sa] sb fandom fandom. Tf f fo-+2 gdoe gde- gmal gnats godot goog google gstetegest- guid gsgse-c mdb indb-c mgur mgu-e Insagram instapram-< nen amuse ‘merosot meroso-s mma mn nat att ofesoftes- ovtook outooks paypal papas pnts piss. reat raat sb pss tumbw tun wich trch-c tw tc wa Woops Wapealc yoo-mal Yhoo-nal- janoo-evs yoo-neNe-¢ yndexyndexs youtube youtubec) Fetes en-US) TProfeer (Dev © gt 5 gt gS mm op pe reenabet smu tbewtch tp )M-1proo( sty et <2) Rap-ChRewr=(amazon anazor-< apps apples ing bing-© cha buy fandom fdom< Tb Tb Tbs To--e gooe gooces gma gnats gogot goog goog gees asesise gcse geide-c ma indb-e mgur gure mstgram Intagran-c Unie Untean-e mrocoN mesosot = mma man nttx nats offes OTe Outoot out ppl aya pnaest pnts ead reeds 6b sp sumo tumbx-c tic ttn ht tac wa wipe Wapedia ehoo-malJahoo-na-© noo-newsNoO-new-= NGS yanaex youtube youtube ip ypav-strYip-aseyp-astst p-vp-ctrYp-oewne- 2st yp-maemneatryipstaewnevpstt)Rap-Profeer=\( godot mma ma co spss va" yp) R(c RIDA) ‘cect itn cpu (1 234 bet bed be bed es be ber ai¥ aa as a a ie ie ge uae qisd get gd gpu gpu-< mast mak? maxi remotes )FR(C Hi 2 Ri Rg Rg Rui Ria RUB Mut) W(Wve Wer veo Was rt Wa We Wind wot wa wl wot wp wt wot? wp wp wnt wit wnt) X(xi 2) Wb) t(c) Wer Wir mt) M-spi( mast mata mast) xn on-U8) Ne tprotatty et e) Fxfn-te a on-U8) ‘Shst un eppunt (1 234 bet be be be bs be DT att 2 as as le gio Qe Qk gs? QUA GDH gu gpUS mast mas? mas; remotswebgpu)W( We WH Wa WS Vt Vir Vrs Ve Ws wpt Wpt2 wp wpt ts wo wptT Wp wp wptO wt wpt2 wptISwpt4) R(CJ1 1213 RI R2 RS RA Rt Rg? RgS ROK RUT RU2 RUS Rut )X(XI 2) Weera(WPe) t(c) Weber Wir Wp Wot? wots) Mespi(maat max? mas) Farr en-US) Ne-tproo(ety ctf exes) Fetoseen( nus) ‘un eppunitT(nevc gt gt 95 0p ps rasan «saw teu tp web x) RC 142 2 Rgt Ag? Rut Ru? Rus Rud) (17 5.45 Bet be bs Bed ns bs Be ai az a lt as ie ie eget gas? gus Qt gpugpu'e mast mas? remot se webgpu) W(WiE Wt Wa Ws Yah Wate Wirt ic ws wre wp wp Swot wots wt wot” wos wp pio wptt wptt2)X(x1 x2) SV(ao 6 496) Whar a(p*)t(<) Rap(amazon amazon‘ mgur Ingurs mma tumor tumbx- twtcn ten twtr ttc wa) Raper api apples ast ting Ding ba] sbae fandom fandom. Th > Tbs< gdoe doe- gmal gmat godot goog google gstets genet QeoE geRSEc aD imdb-¢ mstapramIsagran-< Gan nea merosot meroso-¢ mn nex nett2 Ofee of outoot outoot© paypal papas pnts pints eda reoa-< sb sp 6s wipega wazpedl- yanoo-al hoo-mate yanoo-newsynoo-new- yndoxyndorc youtube youtube ip ip-se ype Ypwpetreucamerast<r* yooucawer yoonsewep-r*) W-bpera{ Wr wpt)M-spi(mast maz2) Fxtn(an-US )Rap-Crrwr3(amazon anazor-< apple apps bing bing. eb] ebay Tandom Tandom-< fb f-s fb Tb gooe qdoe-s gal gnats godot google google acess nec Quo geo dD IndD-c mur ngUT<¢ Instagram instagran-e Mean naaNS ‘mcrogot merotor-e ma mn nefx ntfae ofce offer outok outoot« yal papate pnts pisrestc reaat raat so «pet tunbi tumbi-< twich t-te wc ma wiped wipe yoo-nal yhoo-nal-<yanoo-evsyoo-newe< janx yar youtube youtubec) M-proo{ sty et e2) Fxfmserz(en-U8) Rap-ChRwa(amazon amazon ppl apples bing bing. ebay ebay Tandom fandom fof To Tb. gooe oor gma gma-c uct google googie acess tests gute gute mab indb-c mngurmgurs Incagram Inlgran-e Moan made mesoT merosor-e mma man net nett oes offic outook outook-e pal Peypa-e pies pnts: reat rete cb ep tum ume fin bch tier ttc wa vaipeiawaipeds-< ahoo-mal whoo-nal- W!hoo-tews Jahoo-owssyndex anda outube youtube yp ipavisr pase Ypastst pps sip-aevne asst jtp-oevne-tr ypstaewne-vp2tt) ‘pe'a(eppunit) Mew =(gpu gpu<) ‘pern{eppunit) Mow ag fie ge ist get get ge apu gnc vebgpu) ties (e) Fxinmsw (en-US )Fxinteraon8) M-iprocne a(t) ie ep ES Yr YE to i iw WT ts (125 4c et on Gn (EH) 0) Woe CHE HC) Wr Mao 2545 et HL i a nt me) Fini ‘en-U8) Meproc(atty et c2) Fixtn-mmern(on 8]

[IMAGE_REF: ml-design-doc-reviewer/data/raw_documents/images/case_032/img_004.png]
[IMAGE_ALT: Futurama Fry not sure if meme]
[IMAGE_SOURCE_URL: https://hacks.mozilla.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/pasted-image-0.png]
[IMAGE_DESCRIPTION: NOT SURE IF FLAKY TEST]

[IMAGE_REF: ml-design-doc-reviewer/data/raw_documents/images/case_032/img_005.png]
[IMAGE_ALT: Diagram showing scale of training set (90%) to validation set (10%).]
[IMAGE_SOURCE_URL: https://hacks.mozilla.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/training_validation_set.png]
[IMAGE_DESCRIPTION: NO_TEXT_DETECTED]

[IMAGE_REF: ml-design-doc-reviewer/data/raw_documents/images/case_032/img_006.png]
[IMAGE_ALT: none]
[IMAGE_SOURCE_URL: https://hacks.mozilla.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/test_selection_training2-500x202.png]
[IMAGE_DESCRIPTION: NO_TEXT_DETECTED]

[IMAGE_REF: ml-design-doc-reviewer/data/raw_documents/images/case_032/img_007.png]
[IMAGE_ALT: none]
[IMAGE_SOURCE_URL: https://hacks.mozilla.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/CodeCogsEqn2.png]
[IMAGE_DESCRIPTION: t1C; + t1c2 + t1c3 == | tec, + tocg == 1 t2C3 == ] tsc, + taco + tacg == 1]

[IMAGE_REF: ml-design-doc-reviewer/data/raw_documents/images/case_032/img_008.png]
[IMAGE_ALT: none]
[IMAGE_SOURCE_URL: https://hacks.mozilla.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/bugbug_test_selection_service_sequence_diagram.png]
[IMAGE_DESCRIPTION: Client Web Redis Worker Mercurial Server GET /push/try/REVISION/schedules Get REVISION result Queue REVISION for analysis 202 Accepted Ng eeceeeneneceneeceeeenenansrcecetencceneneneneseceesesonee Get next revision to analyze [| Here's REVISION we eeeceeeeeeeeeneeennsentrentoteacsntenseseeeneseeeeeess ~ Pull REVISION Transfer commit data bee Analyze revision and run ML model Store selection result for REVISION “ GET /push/try/REVISION/schedules Get REVISION result 200 Selection result Lg cseeeecenccessenconetccarescceasseecseusecasseaansseeooee Client Web Redis Worker Mercurial Server]
